## General Specs of an FRC Robots. {#general-specs-of-an-frc-robots}

These are the common overall specs for a competition robot. Please note that if one of these traditions specs is removed from the rules for any one year, there is a good reason the gamemasters remove any of the rules. Normally there will be an advantage to be had by the removal of a rule for a specific game.

*   **Weight - 120 lbs**. This is the maximum amount [OSHA](https://www.osha.gov/) allows two people to carry safely, so it does not change often. Always build lite structures and be efficient with weight. Building an efficient structure can result in a robot the weights 10 lbs light. This is very useful at the end of the season to allow teams to modify or strengthen the robot without the complication of removing weight. The processes in this manual will lead to a lite robot. Normally bumpers are not counted in this weight.
*   **Total horizontal Perimeter - 120 inches**. Pull a measuring tape around the “robot perimeter” and it cannot be more than 120” in total. This means robots tend to be **around 28” x 32”** {(2 x 28”) + (2 x 32”) = 120”}. While the specific rules on this change a little each year, normally this is limits the robot needs to start the match inside of. These limitations normally are set because of the practical need to move the robots around through doors and the competition arena. The perimeter normally does not include the bumpers. We have found it better to design to a perimeter of 118 or 119\. This allows for small errors in fabrication and situations when the robot gets slightly larger from the rigors of competition.
*   **Height - 54” inches.** Height is one of the most variable rule from year to year. The height restrictions can change within a game based on the rules. But generally robots are limited to around 54”.
*   **Bumpers, Bumpers, Bumpers**. Bumpers are very specifically address in the game manual. The constructions and placement of bumpers is very tightly controlled. A wise mentor told me once that bumpers are the second thing you should design after the drivetrain. DO NOT OVERLOOK THE BUMPERS. Design them early and get them built! Bumpers are normally not counted when measuring the robot weight or perimeter. Make sure you do it exactly as specified in the rulebook. This manual has a good set of practices to get excellent bumpers.