# Ian Curtis’ Robot Wisdom {#ians-curtis-robot-wisdom}

1.  **Matches are often won in autonomous mode.** - Autonomous mode is an opportunity to score points without defense. Historically a robot scoring action in autonomous is worth about twice what one is in teleop, and there is no defense.
2.  **If it looks good it probably works good.** - If you had enough time to put the finish touches on something, you probably had enough time to make it work good. Get things done early and test often. If you get time to break it in testing that is much better then finding out it is not strong enough in competition.
3.  **Left to their own devices, game pieces will break your heart.** - If you put gamepieces into a hopper with no powered way to agitate them, they are going to jam at the worst possible time. Always actively engage the game pieces.
4.  **Axe finicky mechanisms** - We barely have time to finish building a robot, let along fine tune something that isn't robust enough to work in a mocked up prototype!
5.  **The average robot will be worse than you think at kickoff.** - Having done analytics on this on the past, a 50th percentile team can usually score the game pieces they start the match with.
6.  **Robot goodness is a highly (positively) skewed distribution.** - The best robots at an event score 4-5 times as many points as a 50th percentile team.
7.  **Reliably decent is >> occasionally great.** - Teams would rather a reliable partner than one that works sometimes but not always, particularly for eliminations.
8.  **Train the heck out of the drivers** - Most FRC drivers probably have less than 2 hours of practice. What self respecting football team would head out the gridiron on so little practice!? If we can get 10 days of practice with the robot, that is great. It helps test the robot and gives the drivers practice.
9.  **The end game is usually worth more than you think at kickoff.** - Usually you kick yourself and go, "Doh!" we should have focused more on that.